# Frequently Asked Questions
## General Questions

**Can I use MPXJ to write MPP files?**

Not at present. Although it is technically feasible to generate an MPP file, the
knowledge we have of the file structure is still relatively incomplete, despite
the amount of data we are able to correctly extract. It is therefore likely to
take a considerable amount of development effort to make this work, and it is
conceivable that we will not be able to write the full set of attributes that
MPXJ supports back into the MPP file - simply because we don't understand the
format well enough. You are therefore probably better off using MSPDI which does
support the full range of data items present in an MPP file.

**I'm generating output using MPXJ, and when my end users open the file in
Microsoft Project, I want to control the appearance of the project data that
they see. Can I do this with MPXJ?**

In short, the answer to this question is no. The only file format which allows
you to control the appearance of project data when opened in Microsoft Project
is MPP. Just to clarify, visual appearance in this context refers to the view
that appears when the project opens, the filtering applied to the view, the
table data visible, the columns in the table, bar styles, text styles and so on.
While MPXJ can read this information from an MPP file, none of the supported
output file formats contain these attributes.

**When I double click on an MPX file to open it in Microsoft Project, I end up
with two copies of the file open. What's happening?**

This isn't an issue with MPXJ - but we have an answer for you anyway! The
problem is caused by a incorrect setting in Microsoft Windows which controls the
way MPX files are opened. To fix the setting, open the Control Panel and click
on the "Folder Options" icon. Select the "File Types" tab and scroll down the
list of file types until you find an entry for MPX. Once you have found the
entry for MPX, click on it to highlight it, then press the "Advanced" button at
the bottom right hand side of the dialog. In the list of actions that you are
now presented with, click on the word "open" to highlight it, then click the
"Edit" button on the right hand side of the dialog. Finally, ensure that the
"Use DDE" check box is not checked, and you can now finish by clicking OK on
each of the open dialogs to dismiss them. You should now find that double
clicking on an MPX file will now only open one copy of the file in Microsoft
Project.

**I use a version of Java older than Java 8, can I use MPXJ?**

The last version of MPXJ which supports versions of Java prior to Java 8 is
version 7.9.8.

**I use a Java 1.4 JVM, but MPXJ is built with a later version of Java, is there
anything I can do which will allow me to use it?**

Yes there is. Assuming you are using a version of MPXJ prior to 8.0.0,
try using [Retroweaver](http://retroweaver.sourceforge.net/).

## Known Issues with MPXJ
**I have an MPP file created by MS Project 98, and some of the Flag field values
are incorrect.**

The MPP8 file format is rather cryptic, and one part of it that I have yet to
really understand fully is how the Flag fields are stored. I've spent a lot of
time looking at this and have not made a lot of progress, so at the moment no
further work is being undertaken to fix this. Contributions of insights,
knowledge or fixed code for this problem are welcome. You'll find a bug for this
item logged in the
[SourgeForge bug tracker](http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=816347&group_id=70649&atid=528541).

**When I read an MPP file I sometimes see an extra task or resource record.**

What you are seeing are "hidden" tasks and resources which newer versions of
Microsoft Project appear to use as placeholders for summary information about
all of the tasks and all of the resources in a project. We're not sure exactly
which versions of Project hold data like this, although we think this is only
relevant for the MPP9 and MPP12 file formats. We've also noticed that the
information in these hidden tasks and resources may not be reliable, so don't
place too much emphasis on them in your application.

You can ignore the first resource if it has a null value as its name. The
attributes of this resource should actually be a summary of all of the resource
combined, e.g. utilisation, actual work, remaining work and so on for the
complete set of "real" resources.

You can ignore the first task if it has an outline level of zero, this task will
be a summary of all the "real" tasks in the project. You may also find that the
name of this task matches the name of the project.

**My localised version of MS Project won't read the MPX files created by MPXJ,
or MPXJ won't read the MPX files written by my localised version of MS Project.**

Localised versions of MS Project (i.e. those which have been translated for use
in a non-English locale) read and write MPX files which include localised text
strings. The end result of this is that an English/International version of MS
Project can't read MPX files produced by a localised version of MS Project, and
vice versa.

MPXJ supports a small number of non-English locales, and can read and write MPX
files correctly for those locales. You can also use MPXJ to translate MPX files
from one locale to another. The MPXFile.setLocale() method must be called prior
to reading or writing an MPX file in order to set the required locale. By
default MPXJ will always produce MPX files for the International/English locale,
regardless of the locale for which your operating system if configured.

Currently supported locales for MPX files include German, Spanish, French,
Italian, Portuguese, Swedish, and Simplified Chinese. Producing a translation
for you locale is very easy, please contact us for details on how you can help
us to do this.

**When I write an MPX file, changes to the project header settings I've made
seem to be lost, what's happening?**

One of the first things the MPXWriter's write method does is to determine the
current locale and update various project settings (for example, currency and
date formats) to match the selected locale. This behaviour can be changed so
that the settings in the project are left unmodified by setting the
useLocaleDefaults parameter to false when calling the write method (for versions
of MPXJ up to and including 3.0.0) or by calling the method setUseLocaleDefaults
on the MPXWriter instance before calling the write method (for versions of MPXJ
after 3.0.0).

## Unit Tests
**I am trying to run the MPXJ unit tests and I'm having problems with failures
in JAXB functionality. What's happening?**

Older versions of JAXB were known to have issues with the JUnit classloader, so
running the JUnit test runner with the -noloading command line option, other
taking other steps to disable JUnit classloading was recommended. This problem
is not believed to affect the more recent version of JAXB now used by MPXJ.
