# How To: Write MSPDI files
Since Microsoft Project 2002, Microsoft Project has been able to 
read and write an XML-based data interchange format called MSPDI.

## Writing MSPDI files
The sample code below illustrates how to write data to an MSPDI file.

```java
import net.sf.mpxj.ProjectFile;
import net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.MSPDIWriter;

// ...

MSPDIWriter writer = new MSPDIWriter();
writer.write(projectFile, outputFileName);
```


## Using MSPDIWriter

### Microsoft Project Compatible Output
Microsoft Project has a non-standard way of representing negative duration
values (it should have a minus sign as a prefix at the start of the XSD duration
expression rather than embedded in it).

Originally MPXJ read and wrote correctly formatted XSD duration values, but
unfortunately this meant that  Project would not read these values correctly,
and MPXJ would not be able to consume these values correctly from an MSPDI file
written by Project. MPXJ has been updated so that it reads and writes the form
of these duration values understood by Project, but this does mean that if you
were previously expecting to be able to parse valid XSD duration values from
output generated by MPXJ, that will no longer be the case.

To provide backward compatibility the `MicrosoftProjectCompatibleOutput` flag
has been introduced. This defaults to `true` so MSPDI files containing negative
durations written by MPXJ can be read by Project. If you need to produce
correctly formatted XSD durations for consumption by applications other than
Project you can set this flag to `false`:

```java
import net.sf.mpxj.ProjectFile;
import net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.MSPDIWriter;

// ...

MSPDIWriter writer = new MSPDIWriter();
writer.setMicrosoftProjectCompatibleOutput(false);
writer.write(projectFile, outputFileName);
```     

### Save Version
The MSPDI file contains a `SaveVersion` attribute which indicates the version of
Microsoft Project used to save the file. The value of `SaveVersion` is defined
by the `net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.SaveVersion` enum,  which provides the following
values:

```
Project2002
Project2003
Project2007
Project2010
Project2013
Project2016
```

By default `MSPDIWriter` sets the `SaveVersion` value to `Project2016`. The only
functional difference this setting makes when writing MSPDI files is that the
format of calendar exceptions changed in Project 2003 and onwards. MPXJ will
always write calendar exceptions using the original Project 2002 format, and if
the `SaveVersion` is set to `Project2003` or later it will also write the  new
format data as well.

Here's an example of the `SaveVersion` attribute being set to ensure that only
the older style of calendar exceptions is written to the MSPDI file:
 
```java
import net.sf.mpxj.ProjectFile;
import net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.MSPDIWriter;
import net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.SaveVersion;

// ...

MSPDIWriter writer = new MSPDIWriter();
writer.setSaveVersion(SaveVersion.Project2002);
writer.write(projectFile, outputFileName);
```

### Timephased Data
By default `MSPDIWriter` does not write timephased data to an MSPDI file. To
enable writing timephased data, you can call the `setWriteTimephasedData`
method.

When this setting is enabled, the default behaviour is for the timephased data
is broken down into days when written to the file. If it better suits your use
case (or you need a more compact file) you can choose to write an aggregated
form of the timephased data by calling the `setSplitTimephasedAsDays` method and
passing `false`. The difference between the two formats is that if for example
you have a 10 day block with 8 hours work per day, this can either be
represented as 10 entries in the file each for a single day with a value of 8
hours, or a single entry for a 10 day range with a value of 80 hours. Although
the latter case is more compact, if you are consuming the MSPDI timephased data
yourself you will need to differentiate between working and non-working days in
order to break the single block down into smaller ranges. The default day-by-day
format MPXJ writes does this for you automatically.

In the first example below we're enabling timephased data, and using the default
day-by-dat breakdown:

```java
import net.sf.mpxj.ProjectFile;
import net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.MSPDIWriter;

// ...

MSPDIWriter writer = new MSPDIWriter();
writer.setWriteTimephasedData(true);
writer.write(projectFile, outputFileName);
```

In this second example we're overriding the default behaviour as asking MPXJ to
write an aggregated form of the timephased data: 

```java
import net.sf.mpxj.ProjectFile;
import net.sf.mpxj.mspdi.MSPDIWriter;

// ...

MSPDIWriter writer = new MSPDIWriter();
writer.setWriteTimephasedData(true);
writer.setSplitTimephasedAsDays(false);
writer.write(projectFile, outputFileName);
```
